1.2 Machine learning
Machine learning is a topic of artificial intelligence where it is possible to elaborate algorithms to teach a particular machine to perform a task. It is necessary to have a dataset, and from that data, explore the correlation between them, discovering patterns and applying algorithms, which makes it possible to take a sum of input data and based on certain patterns to produce the outputs. Each entry in this dataset has its own features, and generates models that can be generalized for a specific task [43].

The idea of machines learning on their own from a vast volume of data may be the simplified definition of machine learning. In general, machine learning is a field of artificial intelligence that is intended to explore constructs of algorithms that make it possible to understand autonomously, where it creates the possibility to recognize and extract patterns from a large volume of data, thus building a model of learning [43,44].

Basically, it is a way of doing better in the future based on past experiences, since this learning is based on observing data as direct experience or instruction, or even examples. Once the algorithm has learned, it is capable of performing complex and dynamic tasks, predicting more accurately, reacting in different situations, and behaving intelligently. Therefore machine learning can be defined as a kind of research area that allows computers the competence to learn without them necessarily being programmed for it [43–45].

This learning process is called model training, where after having trained the model, it is able to generalize to new data, which is not presented in the training stage, where it is provided with correlations and predictions generation to accomplish the specified task. The interest in machine learning in recent times comes from the analog factors that have been made for data mining, which is one of the most popular and essential tasks of the modern era, since the increasing volume and variety of data available and computer processing have become cheaper and more powerful, and data storage has become more affordable leading to the growth of this type of process. Additionally, the results are high-value forecasts that are much more accurate and lead to a much more qualified and assertive investment, meaning they can lead to smart actions in real time and better decisions without any kind of human intervention [43,44].